PAD L1 updates (#92)
biometricITC/Fingerprint-Toolbox: L1-FINGERPRINT_Toolbox_Overview.adoc

Latent fingerprints on porous surfaces such as paper may require chemical treatment to enhance the visibility of the friction ridge pattern. Depending on the surface, the process for developing a latent fingerprint image can vary greatly and may require specialized tools, handling hazardous chemicals, and using dangerous equipment. For these reasons as well as those cited above, using latent fingerprints from porous surfaces is beyond the scope of this toolbox.

====== Scanned image (Included for reference and lab preparedness)

Commercial fingerprint scanners are a good source of flat friction ridge images. Images from commercial scanners are generally high quality, distortion free, have good detail, can be of high resolution, have good grayscale contrast and are readily available. It is recommended that a commercial scanner be used for image acquisition. The highest resolution images available should be used for PAD testing purposes. The image resolution should be 1000 PPI or higher if the scanner supports it.

> The commercial fingerprint scanner should be used to check the quality of the latent prints that are acquired, but not as the source of prints for use in the actual tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commercial fingerprint scanner capture of a fingerprint should be used to check the quality of the latent prints that are acquired (by ensuring a positive comparison determination is produced by a COTS fingerprint comparison algorithm), but not as the source of prints for use in the actual tests.
```

== Flat PAI data acquisition and processing

Fingerprint image acquisition for flat PAIs is the same for all attacks. An image of the subject's finger is captured from a latent print on a non-porous surface. The image can be from a slap or rolled image. If a rolled image is acquired, the evaluator may want to crop the fingerprint image to make a smaller mold containing only the central part of the fingerprint that would usually be in contact with the TOE sensor during normal operation. This region should be large enough to cover as much of the sensor as possible when presenting the PAI to the TOE. This same finger shall be used to enroll the subject into the TOE. Each image shall be acquired under controlled and favorable conditions so as to produce high quality friction ridge information. 

=== Acquiring the latent print

To acquire the fingerprint image, the following steps are followed:

> . The subject's finger is pressed onto the non-porous surface using the similar pressure to the system being tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The subject's finger is pressed onto the non-porous surface using similar pressure to the system being tested.
```

. Carefully dip the brush into the container of powder until the brush is well loaded for the type of powder/brush being used.

> . Test the application away from the print until the right amount of powder is applied (not a heavy deposit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Tap and swirl the brush away from the print to remove excess powder from the brush and to separate the bristles.
```

. Gently and evenly apply the powder to the fingerprint in a way to minimize damage to the fingerprint.

Once the print has been sufficiently covered, it can be imaged.

=== Imaging the latent print

There are two methods for acquiring the image of the latent print. Each method is acceptable, and the specific choice depends on the tools being used.

==== Camera capture

A camera may be use to capture the print to be used for the creation of the PAI. The surface used to create the print should have sufficient contrast with the powder used to bring out the print to be readily used by the software tools that will create the PAI.

When supported by the camera, the image file received shall be in bitmap, TIFF, RAW, or other lossless file formats.

==== Latent pull and scan

The other method for capturing the print is to pull the print powder using some sort of adhesive tape and then placing this onto a fingerprint scanner to capture the image. 

> When supported by the scanner, the image file received shall be in bitmap, TIFF, RAW, or other lossless file formats. Image files using the WSQ format at a bitrate of 2.25 (≅5:1 compression) are acceptable if lossless file formats are not available from the scanner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When supported by the scanner, the image file received shall be in bitmap, TIFF, RAW, or other lossless file formats. Image files using the WSQ format at a bitrate of 2.25 (≅5:1 compression) are acceptable if lossless file formats are not available from the scanner.

==== Quality of the latent print
The resulting image shall be a high enough quality representation of the source friction ridge skin as to be suitable for PAI creation. Upon analysis of the fingermark, the examiner shall observe a single non-complex impressionfootnote:[https://www.aafs.org/asb-standard/best-practice-recommendation-analysis-friction-ridge-impressions]. If a low or high complexity fingermark is recovered, the steps for acquiring a latent print shall be repeated.
```

=== Processing of the PAI data

> The image (whether from the scanner or captured from the latent print) then needs to be processed such that the resultant image contains only black (0 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) and white (255 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) pixels. This can be done by hand using photo editing software suitable for pixel level adjustments or in an automated fashion using binarization software. The resulting enhanced images should have black ridges and white valleys. Pores and creases are also white. The resultant image should be life-sized and remain at the highest resolution available. Resizing the image shall not use interpolation without justification approved by the BIT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image (whether from the scanner or captured from the latent print) then needs to be binarized to only black (0 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) and white (255 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) pixels. This can be done by hand using photo editing software suitable for pixel level adjustments or in an automated fashion using binarization software. The resulting enhanced images should have black ridges and white valleys. Pores and creases are also white. The resultant image should be life-sized and remain at the highest resolution available. Resizing the image shall not use interpolation without justification approved by the BIT.
```

> The image (whether from the scanner or captured from the latent print) then needs to be processed such that the resultant image contains only black (0 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) and white (255 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) pixels. This can be done by hand using photo editing software suitable for pixel level adjustments or in an automated fashion using binarization software. The resulting enhanced images should have black ridges and white valleys. Pores and creases are also white. The resultant image should be life-sized and remain at the highest resolution available. Resizing the image shall not use interpolation without justification approved by the BIT.

Reviewer: May be worded better, but trying to double-check the lift for quality after binarization.

```suggestion
The image (whether from the scanner or captured from the latent print) then needs to be processed such that the resultant image contains only black (0 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) and white (255 in the 8-bit grayscale color space) pixels. This can be done by hand using photo editing software suitable for pixel level adjustments or in an automated fashion using binarization software. The resulting enhanced images should have black ridges and white valleys. Pores and creases are also white. The resultant image should be life-sized and remain at the highest resolution available. Resizing the image shall not use interpolation without justification approved by the BIT.

If excessive powder or background artifacts involved in the acquisition of the fingermark create excessive false ridge detail in the resulting binarized image, the steps for acquiring a latent print shall be repeated.
```

The binarized image should be centered in the image canvas. The entire image canvas should be at least twice the width and height of the area covered by the ridges. In other words, leave adequate space around the fingerprint so that casts made from the mold can be handled without touching the ridges. Make sure to leave adequate working space between the images if multiple images are placed on one transparency or PCB.

Flip the image along the vertical axis producing a mirror image of the fingerprint.

Invert the image so that the ridge lines are now white and the remaining areas are black.

=== Lab preparation using a scanner

> The lab is encouraged to use a scanner to be able to compare the captured print with a direct input as a general measure of quality. Information seen from the direct print shall not be transferred to the captured print (for example seeing that a ridge is broken in the latent when compared to the direct scan shall not be used to correct the latent image).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lab is encouraged to use a scanner to be able to compare the captured print with a direct input as a general measure of quality. Information seen from the direct print shall not be transferred to the captured print (for example seeing that a ridge is broken in the latent when compared to the direct scan shall not be used to correct the latent image). The comparison shall be performed prior to inverting the binarized image.
```
